6 February 2015

This directory contains the Seton et al (2012) "continental" polygons, derived from the Static Polygons. Please note that the definition of "continental" in this instance is rather loose, and contains continental crust and volcanically-modified oceanic crust (including island arcs). Future work will focus on better defining the difference between purely oceanic and non-oceanic crust. 

Static polygons allows plate IDs to be assigned to other data set, and reconstruct raster data. These polygons, and the set of isochrons defining the age of the ocean floor, are consistent with the grid of seafloor age of Seton et al (2012).  Timescale used is Cande and Kent (1995) and Gradstein et. al. (1994).

Please use the following citation for this dataset:

Seton, M., Müller, R.D., Zahirovic, S., Gaina, C., Torsvik, T., G., S., Talsma, A., Gurnis, M., Turner, M., Maus, S., Chandler, M., 2012, Global continental and ocean basin reconstructions since 200 Ma, Earth Science Reviews, 113: 212-270

Two file formats are given:

Seton_etal_ESR2012_ContinentalPolygons_2012.1.gpmlz - native GPlates Markup Language .gpml format
Shapefile/Seton_etal_ESR2012_ContinentalPolygons_2012.1.shp - ESRI shapefile .shp format

To load these datasets in GPlates do the following:

1.  Open GPlates
2.  Pull down the GPlates File menu and select the operation Open Feature Collection
3.  Click the file format you want to load
4.  Click Open 

Alternatively, drag and drop the files onto the globe.

Note: When loading a shapefile, GPlates will prompt you to associate shapefile attributes with GPlates model properties.  You just need to click OK.  However, if loading your own shapefiles, you may need to ensure that the model properties are mapped correctly.
                   
In order to reconstruct these features, you will need to load in the underlying rotation model (.rot file) which can be downloaded from http://www.earthbyte.org/Resources/earthbyte_gplates.html.  

Play around with the GPlates buttons to make an animation, select features, draw features, etc.  For more information, read the GPlates manual which can be downloaded from www.gplates.org or http://www.earthbyte.org/Resources/earthbyte_gplates.html
   
               
Any questions, please email:            
                                        Sabin Zahirovic sabin.zahirovic@sydney.edu.au
										Dietmar Muller dietmar.muller@sydney.edu.au
                                        Maria Seton maria.seton@sydney.edu.au
										Simon Williams simon.williams@sydney.edu.au
